README.md, before:

![Dice](https://github.com/freginold/Dice/blob/master/dice.PNG)

Dice is a bit of JavaScript that slices up text nodes into single-character `span` elements to allow for much more detailed styling.  With Dice, you can break up a word, phrase, line, or paragraph into one-character elements that can be styled by ID or class(es).

Dice is very flexible and can be customized to suit your needs.  By default, Dice will assign an incremental ID to each new `span` element: `diced1`, `diced2`, etc. You can change the ID prefix to whatever you want, or forget assigning IDs altogether.  Classes can be assigned to the characters by odd/even designation (odd number characters get one class or class string and even numbers get another) or you can assign one class (or list of classes) to all characters.  You can even designate certain characters (maybe a space or punctuation) to be skipped.

## Usage

Using Dice is simple. Download the **[dice.js](https://github.com/freginold/Dice/blob/master/dice.js)** file from this repository and load it from your HTML file:
```html
<script src="dice.js"></script>
```
Then, in its most basic form, call Dice like this:
```javascript
dice(textNode);
```
where `textNode` is the text node containing the text that you want to split.  You can also pass in a text node's parent element, and Dice will search through the children for the first non-empty text node that it finds.

Dice can be customized using object properties for greater control and flexibility.

### Properties

Dice has several configurable properties, which can be passed into the function as an object.

#### `id`
Any string here will be used as the ID prefix for the character nodes created by Dice. For example, setting the `id` value to `ch` will result in all characters being wrapped in `span`s with IDs of `ch1`, `ch2`, etc. Setting `id` to `false` will disable assigning an ID to each character node. (*Default:* `diced`)

#### `all`
Give `all` a string value to assign a class to each character in the text node.  You can assign a single class (`all: "class1"`) or a space-delimited list of classes (`all: "class1 class2 class3"`). (*Default:* `false`)

#### `odd`
The class or class list set as the value for `odd` will be applied to all odd-numbered characters. The count goes by character number, not index, so the first character will be odd.  The count does not apply to any skipped characters. (*Default:* `false`)

#### `even`
Similar to the `odd` property except... well, you know. (*Default:* `false`)

#### `skip`
`skip` accepts a string containing any characters that you don't want an ID or class assigned to. These characters should not be delimited, so setting `skip` as "`aF ,1`" will tell Dice to skip all lower-case a's, capital F's, spaces, commas, and 1's. `skip` is case-sensitive. (*Default:* `""` (empty string))

### Setting the Properties

Dice looks for the property values as one object. You can either set the properties inside the function call itself, or set them beforehand and assign the values to an object.

You can set any, all, or none of the properties. Any properties that don't have a value specified, or have an invalid value specified (such as an array where a string is required) will use their default value.

Creating an options object for Dice would look something like this:
```javascript
var optionsObj = {
    id: 'dchar',
    all: 'italicClass',
    even: 'evenClass',
    odd: 'oddClass',
    skip: 'a4# .'
};
```
Then you would pass the object in as the second argument:
```javascript
dice(myNode, optionsObj);
```

You can also pass the option values in directly:
```javascript
dice(myNode, {
    id: false,
    all: 'charClass'
});
```
### Results

After calling Dice on a text node or element containing a text node, that node will be replaced with a `span` containing inner `span`s -- one for each character.  For example, calling Dice on this `div`:
```html
<div>Hello World!</div>
```
with `id`, `all`, `even`, and `odd` all set to `false` would result in:
```html
<div>
    <span>
        <span>H</span><span>e</span><span>l</span><span>l</span><span>o</span><span> </span><span>W</span><span>o</span><span>r</span><span>l</span><span>d</span><span>!</span>
    </span>
</div>
```
One thing to note is that Dice has a return value. Dice returns an integer equal to the number of characters processed. This value is useful if you'll be using JavaScript to manipulate the `span` elements later on. The value does not include any skipped characters, so calling Dice on an element with `innerText` of "`Hi there`" and `skip` set to "`e`" would return `6` (even though the `e` would still be wrapped in a `span`).

### Error Messages

Dice logs error messages to the console for debugging and error handling.

##### `Dice.js error 0: Argument is not a valid node.`
If you get this error, it's probably because the first argument passed in is not an HTML node. Make sure to pass in a valid element object (i.e. `document.getElementById("myDiv")` or `document.getElementById("myDiv").childNodes[1]`) rather than just an ID (`myDiv`).

##### `Dice.js error 1: No valid text node was found.`
The node or element passed in is not a text node, and none of that node's children are (non-empty) text nodes.

##### `Dice.js error 2: Text node passed in is empty.`
The text node passed in as the argument is empty (or only contains white space/line breaks).

##### `Dice.js error 3: No text nodes found as children of argument node.`
The node passed in as the main argument is a valid element, but it does not have a valid (non-empty) text node as a child.

##### `Dice.js error 4: Argument node is no longer part of the DOM tree.`
The main reason for this error is trying to select a text node that was already processed by Dice and has been removed from the DOM tree.

##### `Dice.js error 5: Argument does not have 'parentNode' property.`
This error is likely because the first argument passed into Dice is either `undefined` or not an HTML node.


### Things to Keep in Mind

Dice wraps each character in a `span`, and all of them are wrapped in one outer `span`.  You can style those `span`s however you want, but keep in mind that if you want to apply vertical margins or certain transformational CSS effects to them, you'll need to use `display: inline` or `display: inline-block`.

If using Dice multiple times on the same page or app, be sure to either specify a different ID prefix or set `id` to `false` to avoid multiple elements with the same ID.

To include a single or double quote into the `skip` string, escape it with a backslash (i.e. `skip: "\""`) or wrap it in the other type of quote (i.e. `skip: '"'`).

### Issues / Suggestions

Discovered a bug?  Have a suggestion for a cool new feature?  Feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/freginold/Dice/issues).  For bugs, please provide as much information as you can.  Screen shots always welcome.

Commit message:

add link to examples page

README.md, after:

![Dice](https://github.com/freginold/Dice/blob/master/dice.PNG)

Dice is a bit of JavaScript that slices up text nodes into single-character `span` elements to allow for much more detailed styling.  With Dice, you can break up a word, phrase, line, or paragraph into one-character elements that can be styled by ID or class(es).

Dice is very flexible and can be customized to suit your needs.  By default, Dice will assign an incremental ID to each new `span` element: `diced1`, `diced2`, etc. You can change the ID prefix to whatever you want, or forget assigning IDs altogether.  Classes can be assigned to the characters by odd/even designation (odd number characters get one class or class string and even numbers get another) or you can assign one class (or list of classes) to all characters.  You can even designate certain characters (maybe a space or punctuation) to be skipped.

See some examples of what you can use Dice for here: [https://freginold.github.io/Dice/](https://freginold.github.io/Dice/)
## Usage

Using Dice is simple. Download the **[dice.js](https://github.com/freginold/Dice/blob/master/dice.js)** file from this repository and load it from your HTML file:
```html
<script src="dice.js"></script>
```
Then, in its most basic form, call Dice like this:
```javascript
dice(textNode);
```
where `textNode` is the text node containing the text that you want to split.  You can also pass in a text node's parent element, and Dice will search through the children for the first non-empty text node that it finds.

Dice can be customized using object properties for greater control and flexibility.

### Properties

Dice has several configurable properties, which can be passed into the function as an object.

#### `id`
Any string here will be used as the ID prefix for the character nodes created by Dice. For example, setting the `id` value to `ch` will result in all characters being wrapped in `span`s with IDs of `ch1`, `ch2`, etc. Setting `id` to `false` will disable assigning an ID to each character node. (*Default:* `diced`)

#### `all`
Give `all` a string value to assign a class to each character in the text node.  You can assign a single class (`all: "class1"`) or a space-delimited list of classes (`all: "class1 class2 class3"`). (*Default:* `false`)

#### `odd`
The class or class list set as the value for `odd` will be applied to all odd-numbered characters. The count goes by character number, not index, so the first character will be odd.  The count does not apply to any skipped characters. (*Default:* `false`)

#### `even`
Similar to the `odd` property except... well, you know. (*Default:* `false`)

#### `skip`
`skip` accepts a string containing any characters that you don't want an ID or class assigned to. These characters should not be delimited, so setting `skip` as "`aF ,1`" will tell Dice to skip all lower-case a's, capital F's, spaces, commas, and 1's. `skip` is case-sensitive. (*Default:* `""` (empty string))

### Setting the Properties

Dice looks for the property values as one object. You can either set the properties inside the function call itself, or set them beforehand and assign the values to an object.

You can set any, all, or none of the properties. Any properties that don't have a value specified, or have an invalid value specified (such as an array where a string is required) will use their default value.

Creating an options object for Dice would look something like this:
```javascript
var optionsObj = {
    id: 'dchar',
    all: 'italicClass',
    even: 'evenClass',
    odd: 'oddClass',
    skip: 'a4# .'
};
```
Then you would pass the object in as the second argument:
```javascript
dice(myNode, optionsObj);
```

You can also pass the option values in directly:
```javascript
dice(myNode, {
    id: false,
    all: 'charClass'
});
```
### Results

After calling Dice on a text node or element containing a text node, that node will be replaced with a `span` containing inner `span`s -- one for each character.  For example, calling Dice on this `div`:
```html
<div>Hello World!</div>
```
with `id`, `all`, `even`, and `odd` all set to `false` would result in:
```html
<div>
    <span>
        <span>H</span><span>e</span><span>l</span><span>l</span><span>o</span><span> </span><span>W</span><span>o</span><span>r</span><span>l</span><span>d</span><span>!</span>
    </span>
</div>
```
One thing to note is that Dice has a return value. Dice returns an integer equal to the number of characters processed. This value is useful if you'll be using JavaScript to manipulate the `span` elements later on. The value does not include any skipped characters, so calling Dice on an element with `innerText` of "`Hi there`" and `skip` set to "`e`" would return `6` (even though the `e` would still be wrapped in a `span`).

### Error Messages

Dice logs error messages to the console for debugging and error handling.

##### `Dice.js error 0: Argument is not a valid node.`
If you get this error, it's probably because the first argument passed in is not an HTML node. Make sure to pass in a valid element object (i.e. `document.getElementById("myDiv")` or `document.getElementById("myDiv").childNodes[1]`) rather than just an ID (`myDiv`).

##### `Dice.js error 1: No valid text node was found.`
The node or element passed in is not a text node, and none of that node's children are (non-empty) text nodes.

##### `Dice.js error 2: Text node passed in is empty.`
The text node passed in as the argument is empty (or only contains white space/line breaks).

##### `Dice.js error 3: No text nodes found as children of argument node.`
The node passed in as the main argument is a valid element, but it does not have a valid (non-empty) text node as a child.

##### `Dice.js error 4: Argument node is no longer part of the DOM tree.`
The main reason for this error is trying to select a text node that was already processed by Dice and has been removed from the DOM tree.

##### `Dice.js error 5: Argument does not have 'parentNode' property.`
This error is likely because the first argument passed into Dice is either `undefined` or not an HTML node.


### Things to Keep in Mind

Dice wraps each character in a `span`, and all of them are wrapped in one outer `span`.  You can style those `span`s however you want, but keep in mind that if you want to apply vertical margins or certain transformational CSS effects to them, you'll need to use `display: inline` or `display: inline-block`.

If using Dice multiple times on the same page or app, be sure to either specify a different ID prefix or set `id` to `false` to avoid multiple elements with the same ID.

To include a single or double quote into the `skip` string, escape it with a backslash (i.e. `skip: "\""`) or wrap it in the other type of quote (i.e. `skip: '"'`).

### Issues / Suggestions

Discovered a bug?  Have a suggestion for a cool new feature?  Feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/freginold/Dice/issues).  For bugs, please provide as much information as you can.  Screen shots always welcome.
